MC	You purchase a car for $20,000, but you would have been willing to pay $30,000. It cost the car manufacturer $15,000 to make one more car for you to buy. What is the total economic surplus from this transaction?	$30,000	Incorrect	$5,000	Incorrect	$10,000	Incorrect	$25,000	Correct	$15,000	Incorrect
MC	Suppose the government has set the price of potato chips at a price below the perfectly competitive equilibrium price. If the price of potatoes (used to produce potato chips) increase, then _______________.	the chips shortage increases	Correct	the chips surplus decreases	Incorrect	the chips shortage decreases	Incorrect	the quantity moves closer to the perfectly competitive equilibrium quantity	Incorrect	there is not enough information to say what happens	Incorrect
MC	On Monday, ticket prices for a Blackpink concert increased from $100 to $120. The same day, sales of tickets to a BTS concert, which has been selling at a rate of 5,000 a day, increased to 10,000 a day. You infer that the	cross-price elasticity between Blackpink concert tickets and BTS concert tickets is positive and greater than 1.	Correct	cross-price elasticity between Blackpink concert tickets and BTS concert tickets is negative and less than -1.	Incorrect	the two goods are complements, but you can't say whether they are strong or weak complements.	Incorrect	the two goods are substitutes, but you don't know if the cross-price elasticity is less than or greater than 1.	Incorrect
MC	Suppose when everybody's back on campus, you open a hot dog stand in Red Square for three weeks. Every morning, you prepare 500 hot dogs. In the first week, you sell about 350 hot dogs every day. In the second week, you sell all 500 each day. By the third week, you sell an average of only 50 hot dogs per day. Which could NOT have directly caused this?	In the second week, you lowered the price per hot dog. In the third week, you raised it.	Incorrect	In the second week, the cafeteria closed. In the third week, the cafeteria began serving hot dogs (for free).	Incorrect	In the second week, finals were taking place so more people were going to class and passing by your stand. In the third week, winter break started.	Incorrect	In the second week, you start using a new hot dog roller that makes hot dogs super quickly. In the third week, the roller breaks down so you have to use an older one.	Correct	In the second week, students were hearing more about how great your hot dogs were. In the third week, news spread about people getting sick from them.	Incorrect
MC	Assume the markets for iPhones and iPads are both perfectly competitive, and assume that Apple's factory can make two only two things, iPhones and iPads. So Apple CEO Tim Cook needs to decide how many hours a day to have the factory in iPhone mode and how many hours a day to have the factory in iPad mode. Given the recent move to online schooling for the majority of the world's schoolchildren, there has been an increase in demand for iPads while the demand for iPhones has been constant. Which of the following is most likely to happen?:	the price of iPhones increases and the quantity falls	Correct	the price of iPads increases and the quantity falls	Incorrect	the market for iPhones is unaffected but the market for iPads depends on how large the increase in demand for iPads is	Incorrect	Apple would stop selling iPhones.	Incorrect
MC	As a manager of a café you make daily staffing decisions. You know the total benefits and total costs of scheduling different numbers of workers on a typical Friday (see table below). How many workers should you schedule this Friday?	6, because the total benefits are highest	Incorrect	5, because it has a good balance of total cost and total benefit	Incorrect	more than 1 but fewer than 3, depending on how productive the workers are	Incorrect	4, because the marginal cost is greater than the marginal benefits for the fourth worker but not for the fifth	Correct
MC	Georgetown University has invested significant funds into improving the Yates Field House. But now some administrators at Georgetown are worried that when students come back to campus they may not want to use it, though, for fear of Covid-19, and they want to abandon the project. The president of the university makes a few statements. Which one makes the most economic sense?	"We have already invested a significant amount of time and money, so we cannot abandon the improvements now."	Incorrect	"We should continue with the improvements if the expected benefits from finishing are greater than the remaining costs."	Correct	"I was looking forward to playing on those new tennis courts."	Incorrect	"Those worried administrators are framing the costs all wrong. They should focus on the WTP for the intangible benefits of a gym, not the fear of Covid."	Incorrect
MC	Uncle JJ's Bottled Water Company operates in the perfectly competitive market for bottled water. The market price for a bottle of water is $2.00. At Uncle JJ's current production quantity, the marginal cost for producing one more bottle of water is $0.50. What price should Uncle JJ charge for a bottle of water in order to maximize his company's profits?	Anything above $0.50 but below $2.00.	Incorrect	Something just above $2.00.	Incorrect	Something just below $2.00.	Incorrect	Exactly $2.00.	Correct
MC	Simone opened a consulting firm, and she knows her firm's marginal cost curve for consulting labor. Looking ahead, she realizes several factors could change her plans as a supplier of consulting services. Suppose that three new consulting firms that offer similar services open in Simone's city (ceteris paribus). Which of the following is true?	Simone's firm's supply curve shifts in.	Incorrect	Simone's firm's supply curve shifts out.	Incorrect	The demand for consulting decreases.	Incorrect	Simone's firm's supply curve is unaffected.	Correct
MC	In anticipation of the upcoming holiday season, Toys-by-TAs, a major supplier of toys and games, expects the price of their products to increase in November. What will they decide to do with their supply of toys and games in October?	Supply fewer toys and games this month, in anticipation of the price change	Correct	Supply more toys and games this month, in anticipation of the price change	Incorrect	Supply the same amount of toys and games this month, regardless of the price change	Incorrect	Lower the price of their toys so that they can sell even more.	Incorrect
MC	In the island of Lungo, the average price of a pack of cigarettes increased from $4.00 to $6.00 between 2018 and 2019. The quantity of cigarette packs sold there decreased from 101,000 to 99,000. Using those data points, what is the price (arc) elasticity of demand for cigarettes, using the midpoint formula?	-0.05	Correct	0.05	Incorrect	-5	Incorrect	5	Incorrect	It depends on whether you compute the change from 2018 to 2019, or the change from 2019 to 2018.	Incorrect
MC	Water is inexpensive and diamonds are expensive because	The total benefit of diamonds is larger than the total benefit of water.	Incorrect	The supply of diamonds is perfectly inelastic because there's only a fixed number of diamonds.	Incorrect	The marginal benefit of a gallon of water is very low but people's WTP for a diamond is very high.	Correct	the market for water is not competitive but the market for diamonds is.	Incorrect
MC	When my income fell, I bought more suede shoes. Based on that one fact, which statement is most likely to be true?:	Other things equal, suede shoes may be a normal good, but they're a substitute for more expensive smooth leather shoes.	Incorrect	My income elasticity of demand for suede shoes is negative.	Correct	My price elasticity of demand for suede shoes is probably smaller than -1.	Incorrect	To know whether suede shoes are normal or inferior good, we'd also need to know the cross-price elasticity of suede shoes with smooth leather shoes.	Incorrect
MC	The recent fires have increased gasoline prices in Nevada, which was otherwise unaffected by the fires. This means	The demand for gas in Nevada has shifted out because people will be willing to pay more because the price is higher.	Incorrect	The demand curve for gasoline has shifted in because people are deterred from buying gas at the higher prices.	Incorrect	There is a downward movement along the demand curve, indicating people are buying more gas.	Incorrect	There is an upward movement along the demand curve, indicating people are buying less gasoline.	Correct
MC	Supply curves eventually slope up because	Marginal costs of production eventually increase	Correct	Marginal benefits of consumption eventually decrease	Incorrect	Suppliers can get volume discounts on necessary inputs	Incorrect	As the supplier adds more inputs, such as labor, the marginal productivity of the inputs increases.	Incorrect
MC	Camille started taking piano lessons and needs sheet music to begin practicing. Camille knows a great piano sheet music store with a wide selection, but she doesn't remember the prices. She plans to shop there soon and asks Cricket how many pieces of sheet music (one piece of sheet music = one song) she wants. Cricket says: "If the price per piece of sheet music is $6, spend $6 buying one piece. If the price is $4, spend $8 to buy two pieces. If the price is $3 spend $9 to buy three pieces." Camille responds: "You're saying you will pay more in total for three pieces of sheet music than two. That doesn't make sense! You're making bad decisions." Which of the following is the best evaluation of Camille's response:	Camille's response is incorrect. Cricket's buying plans are based on the marginal benefit of each piece of sheet music compared to marginal cost; the total cost isn't what matters here.	Correct	Camille's response is correct. Cricket should not be willing to spend more on three pieces of sheet music total than on two pieces of sheet music.	Incorrect	Camille's response is incorrect. Cricket should spend more money on sheet music because it will make her better at piano.	Incorrect	Camille's response is correct. Cricket should have a lower marginal benefit for her first piece of sheet music than her second or third.	Incorrect
MC	"Happy hours," where restaurants offer drinks and food for lower prices, usually in the mid- to late-afternoon, is best explained by which of the following:	Restaurant managers know that customers need a little pick-me-up between lunch and dinner and so want to do something kind.	Incorrect	Restaurant managers think that demand in the late afternoon is relatively elastic compared to demand at lunch and dinner, and so have lowered their prices in hopes of increasing revenue.	Correct	Restaurant owners think that if a customer wants to eat and drink between lunch and dinner, they must really want to eat and drink between lunch and dinner, so the managers lower the prices in hopes of selling a lot of quantity to those people.	Incorrect	It is cheaper for restaurant managers to operate in the afternoon so they are able to lower their prices.	Incorrect
MC	Alene's willingness to pay for a sandwich is $12. Leo's WTP for the same sandwich is $10. Which statement is true?	Alene is hungrier than Leo.	Incorrect	Alene is wealthier than Leo.	Incorrect	Leo probably already purchased and ate sandwich before this one.	Incorrect	The benefit Alene gets from the sandwich, measured in dollars Alene would pay, is higher than the benefit Leo gets from the sandwich, measured in dollars he would pay.	Correct
MC	Which of these is NOT a shifter of the Demand curve?	Income	Incorrect	Expectations of future price	Incorrect	Price of related goods	Incorrect	Input price	Correct
MC	Average income in the U.S. increased 2 percent this year, and electronic cigarettes (e-cigs) are a normal good for most U.S. consumers. What happens to the demand curve for e-cigs?	Shifts the market demand curve for e-cigs in the U.S. right	Correct	Shifts the market demand curve for e-cigs in the U.S. left	Incorrect	The market demand curve for e-cigs in the U.S. will not shift	Incorrect	Movement along the market demand curve for e-cigs in the U.S. up and to the left	Incorrect	Movement along the market demand curve for e-cigs in the U.S. down and to the right	Incorrect
MC	Suppose the price is above the equilibrium price. Then there is a _________ and market forces will work to push the price _____________.	Shortage; down	Incorrect	Surplus; down	Correct	Shortage; up	Incorrect	Surplus; up	Incorrect	Shortage; flat.	Incorrect
MC	Arjun created a new manufacturing technique for toilet paper, drastically lowering the cost of producing that necessity good. Coincidentally, the same day he implemented the new technique across all TP suppliers worldwide, a new pandemic was announced and people expected the cost of toilet paper next month to spike. What happens to the market for toilet paper today?	Quantity increases, the price may increase or decrease	Correct	Quantity and price increases	Incorrect	Quantity increases and price decreases	Incorrect	Quantity decreases and price stays the same	Incorrect
MC	There's a long line to get the latest pair of penny loafers from Malak's Handmade Shoe Shop. Malak set the sticker price of $450. This means	There are congestion effects, lowering the value of the shoes because of the long line	Incorrect	Malak has priced the shoes on the elastic portion of the demand curve.	Incorrect	Only the people who value the shoes the most will get them---who else would wait in line for a pair of shoes?	Incorrect	Some people who value the shoes at more than $450 will not be able to get them.	Correct
MC	Suppose that Georgetown and other D.C. schools invite all students back to campus for the spring semester. Unfortunately, three weeks later Covid-19 cases increase and the D.C. mayor orders all college students to leave the city and go home within 72 hours. Because flight routes are incredibly complicated, airlines cannot adjust so quickly, so supply in the short-term is _____________. As a result, over the next 72 hours, the price of flights _______ and the quantity _______.	Perfectly elastic; increases; stays the same	Incorrect	Perfectly inelastic; decreases; increases	Incorrect	Perfectly inelastic; increases; stays the same	Correct	Relatively inelastic; increases; decreases.	Incorrect
MC	Burktown is internationally famous for its abnormally shiny golden potatoes. Unfortunately, on Monday a tornado swept away the majority of potatoes. That tornado also caused millions of Burkians who regularly consume potatoes to be evacuated to shelters at the neighboring Gorgetown. What happened to market for potatoes in Burktown?	The price increased and quantity decreased.	Incorrect	The price decreased and quantity increased.	Incorrect	The effect on price is unclear based on this information, but the quantity decreased.	Correct	The price increased but the effect on quantity is unclear.	Incorrect
MC	"Donald Trump's economic policies are ruining the country."	Whether you agree or not, this statement is positive.	Incorrect	Whether you agree or not, this is a normative statement.	Correct	This is true if congestion effects are important.	Incorrect	Whether you agree or not, this is an instance of diminishing marginal returns.	Incorrect
MC	Suppose X and Y are complements. For some reason, the price of X increases. At the same time, the technology used to produce Y improves. What happens to the equilibrium quantity of Y?	It decreases.	Incorrect	It increases.	Incorrect	We can't say with this information.	Correct	It stays the same.	Incorrect
MC	Raphael is ready to open his Rapha's Cookie Shop tomorrow. Unfortunately, he just learned that he misunderstood the lease he had signed--he thought the cost was $10,000 / year but instead it was $10,000 / month. More unfortunately, he cannot get out of the lease.	His supply curve would shift outward because now he needs to charge more for any given quantity of cookies.	Incorrect	His supply curve would shift inward because now he needs to charge less for any given quantity of cookies.	Incorrect	His supply curve would remain unchanged, despite the new information that his lease is literally 12 times more costly than he thought.	Correct	The opportunity cost of continuing to operate the shop has increased.	Incorrect
MC	You have two skills-for-hire: writing articles and designing logos. Moreover, the price of each article is $10 and the price of each new logo is $20. Here is your PPF: What can you say about your opportunity cost of writing an article?	As you write more articles, the opportunity cost increases (e.g., it is higher in the move from X to Z than it is in the move from W to Y).	Incorrect	The opportunity cost of writing articles is the same at all points on the PPF.	Correct	Because the price of logos is higher, the opportunity cost of writing an article is low.	Incorrect	You can't say anything about the opportunity cost based on this information.	Incorrect
MC	If your income elasticity of demand for a good is negative, that means when your income goes up, your demand for the good _________ and if your income goes down your demand for the good_______________.	Increases; decreases	Incorrect	Decreases; increases	Correct	Decreases; may increase or decrease	Incorrect	Increases; stays the same	Incorrect
MC	Demand is given by  $($Q_D=50-\frac{1}{5}P$$)and supply is given by  ($$Q_S=\frac{1}{5}P-2$$). What is the equilibrium price and quantity:	P=30, Q=4	Correct	P=4, Q=30	Incorrect	P=0, Q=10	Incorrect	P=10, Q=60	Incorrect
MC	The price of sweatshirts (a normal good) increases, and the quantity of sweatshirts purchased also increases. Of the following options, what events would unambiguously lead to this outcome?	People's incomes increased, and the cost per unit for stayed the same.	Correct	People's incomes increased, and the cost per unit for cotton decreased.	Incorrect	People's incomes decreased, and the cost per unit for cotton increased.	Incorrect	People's incomes decreased, and the cost per unit for cotton decreased.	Incorrect
MC	Which of the following would be least likely to shift the demand curve for cookies?	a widely publicized study that eating cookies leads to diabetes	Incorrect	a decrease in the price of milk	Incorrect	a decrease in the price of flour	Correct	an increase in the income of families	Incorrect
MC	The table below shows Menghan's total benefit from eating goat cheese. Suppose the price of a pound of goat cheese is $15. How many pounds of goat cheese should Menghan buy?	1	Incorrect	2	Incorrect	3	Correct	4	Incorrect
MC	If your demand for wood screws is given by the following equation: $$Q_D=100-100P$$ then what is the marginal benefit of the 40th wood screw (rounding down to the nearest cent)?	$1	Incorrect	$0.10	Incorrect	$0.60	Correct	$0.40	Incorrect
MC	Consider the labor market for hourly work in DC. With the pandemic, there has been both the closure of a lot of business and the reduction of goods/services that surviving businesses offer. There have also been many people unwilling to go into work due to health concerns. Assume these are the only changes that have occurred in the market. What will happen to the equilibrium wage and the number of hours worked?	The effect on the wage is unknown, and hours worked will increase	Incorrect	The effect on the wage is unknown, and hours worked will decrease.	Correct	The wage will increase, and the effect on hours worked is unknown	Incorrect	The wage will decrease, and the effect on hours worked is unknown.	Incorrect
MC	When coffee shops increase the price of coffee to pay their baristas more, what happens to the demand for coffee?	The quantity demanded decreases, as this is a movement along the demand curve.	Correct	The demand curve shifts out to reflect the higher input cost.	Incorrect	The demand curve shifts in because WTP for coffee has decreased.	Incorrect	There is no change in demand and no impact on the quantity demanded.	Incorrect
MC	Based on the picture, what is true about the price elasticity of demand?	Demand at the blue point is more elastic than demand at the pink point.	Incorrect	Demand at the pink point on the green line is more elastic than demand at the pink point on the orange line.	Correct	Elasticity at all points on the orange line is the same, because the slope is the same.	Incorrect	At every point on the orange line, demand is more elastic than at every point on the green line.	Incorrect
MC	What can be said about the price elasticities of supply of the following supply curves?	At any price, the supply is more elastic on the blue line than on the orange line.*	Correct	The two curves have the same elasticity at each point.	Incorrect	There is not enough information to compare the elasticities.	Incorrect	There is no such thing as price elasticity of supply; only the price elasticity of demand exists.	Incorrect
MC	Your niece is operating a lemonade stand. And you realize that the price she has set is on the _________ portion of her customers' demand curve. You recommend that she raise the price, which will __________ her revenue and _________ her costs.	Elastic, increase, lower	Incorrect	Inelastic, increase, lower	Correct	Elastic, increase, raise	Incorrect	Inelastic, increase, keep constant	Incorrect
